TITLE: 8 Capitalization (pp. 96–99)
============================================================

METADATA:
  version: v22
  section: rules
  slug: 8-capitalization
  element: MenuNode
  description: Generations of law students, lawyers, scholars, judges, and other legal professionals have relied on The Bluebook's unique system of citation in their…
  canonical_url: https://www.legalbluebook.com/bluebook

------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENT:
8
Capitalization
(pp. 96–99)
(a) Headings and titles.
Capitalize words in a heading or title, including the initial word and any word that immediately follows a colon. Do not capitalize articles, conjunctions, or prepositions when they are four or fewer letters, unless they begin the heading or title, or immediately follow a colon.
(b) Internet main page titles and URLs.
In both text and footnotes, capitalize URLs and words in an internet main page title in accordance with the actual capitalization of the source.
(c) Author last names.
Capitalize authors’ last names as they are given in either the table of contents of a periodical or on the title page of a work, whichever more clearly indicates the proper capitalization of the author's name:
14
van Dorn,
supra
note 12, at 151.
or:
14
Van Dorn,
supra
note 12, at 151.
(d) Text.
Except for headings, titles, and internet main page titles and URLs, capitalize according to this rule. When this rule does not address a particular question of capitalization, refer to a style manual such as
The
Chicago Manual of Style
or the
Government Printing Office Style Manual
. Practitioners should also refer to
Bluepages B8
for further advice on capitalization. Additional words that should be capitalized in legal writing include:
(i) Nouns that identify specific persons, officials, groups, government offices, or government bodies.
These words and phrases should always be capitalized according to the following examples:
the Commissioner of Social Security
The plaintiff was declared disabled by the Commissioner of Social Security and was awarded benefits.
the Administrator
For fifty years, the statute has provided that the Administrator make all necessary determinations.
the FDA
The FDA has approved the salts as safe and effective.
the Agency
The Agency reported that all areas of the country met the standard for nitrogen dioxide.
Congress
Members of Congress are immune from false imprisonment claims under certain circumstances.
the President
A sitting President's executive power allows him or her to pardon convicted criminals.
But:
the congressional hearings
The congressional hearings were held on the potential cumulative effects of these three rules.
the presidential veto
The presidential veto does not confer such power upon the President.
(ii) Exceptions.
Certain words are exceptions to the above rule and should be capitalized according to the following rules:
Act
Capitalize when referring to a specific legislative act:
A union has a statutory duty of fair representation under the National Labor Relations Act.
The record of the hearing shows that the Act required operators to pay for their own retirees.
Circuit
Capitalize when used with a circuit’s name or number:
We have decided to follow the Fifth Circuit and District of Columbia Circuit in that regard, rather than this circuit’s unclear precedent.
Code
Capitalize when referring to a specific code:
At least one court considered the significance of the change between the 1939 and 1954 Codes.
Commonwealth
Capitalize if it is a part of the full title of a state, if the word it modifies is capitalized, or when referring to a state as a governmental actor or a party to a litigation:
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts sued several companies.
The Commonwealth may not relitigate the issue in a post-conviction hearing.
Constitution
Capitalize when naming any constitution in full or when referring to the U.S. Constitution, but do not capitalize the adjective form “constitutional.” Also, capitalize nouns that identify specific parts of a state or the U.S. Constitution when referring to them in textual sentences, but not in citations:
Students in this class have studied the Ex Post Facto Clause of the Pennsylvania Constitution. The students agree that the clause in that constitution is substantially similar to the Ex Post Facto Clause of the U.S. Constitution.
But:
He claims his constitutional rights were violated.
Of all the amendments in the U.S. Constitution, the Fifth Amendment may be the most complex.
Accordingly, there was no violation of Article I, Section 8, Clause 17 of the Constitution.
But:
See
U.S. Const
. art. I, § 8, cl. 17 (granting Congress the power to “exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever . . . over all Places purchased” by the United States).
Court
Capitalize when naming any court in full or when referring to the U.S. Supreme Court (with some exceptions for court documents and legal memoranda, see
Bluepages B8
):
The California Supreme Court found no violation in such a case.
The argument in the state supreme court concerning the lack of prior notice was based solely on state authorities.
When the Court approves the argument, it becomes constitutional doctrine for the entire country.
The court of appeals reversed the trial court.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed.
Federal
Capitalize when the word it modifies is capitalized:
The Federal Constitution provides for three branches of government.
A higher level of clarity is required in statutes that require federal spending.
Judge, Justice
Capitalize when giving the name of a specific judge or justice or when referring to a Justice of the United States Supreme Court:
In one of the first decisions on point, Judge Cedarbaum rejected a group appointment.
This era of constitutional non-interference ended when the Justices proclaimed a profound national commitment to the principle that debate on public issues should be uninhibited.
The justices of the state’s highest court will hear oral arguments on the issue of capital punishment at the end of the month.
State
Capitalize if it is a part of the full title of a state, if the word it modifies is capitalized, or when referring to a state as a governmental actor or as a party to a litigation:
The principal issue is whether the State of Kansas may impose its motor fuel tax. The State Commissioner adopted a broad-based policy.
The State brought this action two years ago.
Term
Capitalize when referring to a Term of the United States Supreme Court:
The United States Supreme Court considered this issue in this Term and in four other Terms since the 1978 Term.
The central common law courts sat only four times a year, but customarily the year began with Michaelmas term.